.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH mpdscribble 1 "JANUARY 2009" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
mpdscribble - A Music Player Daemon (MPD) client which submits
information about tracks being played to a scrobbler (e.g. last.fm).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mpdscribble [options] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mpdscribble
is a client for MPD, the Music Player Daemon. mpdscribble connects to
an MPD running on the local network and works in parallel with other
MPD clients on the network.

By default it will get the hostname and port for mpd from the MPD_HOST 
and MPD_PORT environment variables. mpdscribble will use localhost:6600 
if those are not set. The hostname and port can also be specified in the
configuration file or on the command line. 

$ mpdscribble \-\-host myhost \-\-port=12345

Values specified on the command line override values from the configuration 
file or environment variables.

If you want to use mpdscribble with a password-protected MPD, set the 
environment variable MPD_HOST to password@host, or specify the host in the
configuration file similarly.

On submission failure, mpdscribble waits for some time then retries. Sending a
USR1 signal to a running mpdscribble process makes it submit immediately.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display help and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-no-daemon
Don't daemonize mpdscribble, run it in foreground.
.TP
.B \-\-pidfile FILE
Write the process id to this file.
.TP
.B \-\-daemon-user USERNAME
Change to this system user after daemonization.
.TP
.B \-\-log FILE
Specify log file.  The special value "syslog" makes mpdscribble use
the local syslog daemon (which is the default).  "-" means log to
stderr.
.TP
.B \-\-conf FILE
Read configuration options from file. /etc/mpdscribble.conf
is used by default (if \-\-sysconfdir=/etc).
.TP
.B \-\-host [PASSWORD@]HOSTNAME
Specify host protected by password. 
To connect via Unix Domain Socket, specify an absolute path here.
.TP
.B \-\-port PORT
Specify which port the MPD listens on.
.TP
.B \-\-proxy URL
HTTP proxy URL.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose LEVEL
Specify how verbosely mpdscribble should log.  Possible values are 0
to 3, defaulting to 1.
.SH CONFIGURATION
mpdscribble looks for its configuration file in the following order:
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mpdscribble/mpdscribble.conf, ~/.config/mpdscribble/mpdscribble.conf, ~/.mpdscribble/mpdscribble.conf, /etc/mpdscribble.conf
(if \-\-sysconfdir=/etc)
but this can be overridden by specifying an alternate configuration
file using the command line option
\-\-conf.

Supported configuration options:
.TP
.B pidfile = FILE
Write the process id to this file.
.TP
.B log = FILE
The file to which mpdscribble should output debugging information.
The special value "syslog" makes mpdscribble use the local syslog
daemon (which is the default).  "-" means log to stderr.
.TP
.B host = [PASSWORD@]HOSTNAME
The host running MPD, possibly protected by a password.
To connect via Unix Domain Socket, specify an absolute path here.
.TP
.B port = PORT
The port that the MPD listens on and mpdscribble should try to connect to.
.TP
.B proxy = URL
HTTP proxy URL.
.TP
.B verbose = 0, 1, 2, 3
How verbose mpdscribble's logging should be.  Default is 1.  "0" means
log only critical errors (e.g. "out of memory"); "1" also logs
non-critical errors (e.g. "server unreachable"); "2" logs
informational messages (e.g. "new song"); "3" prints a lot of
debugging messages.
.SH SCROBBLERS
These options are followed by at least one scrobbler section (choose a
unique section name like "libre.fm" which only appears in the log
file; the name "mpdscribble" is reserved).
.TP
.B file = PATH
Log to a file instead of submitting the songs to an AudioScrobbler
server.
.TP
.B url = URL
The handshake URL of the scrobbler.  Example:
"https://post.audioscrobbler.com/", "http://turtle.libre.fm/"
.TP
.B username = USERNAME
Your audioscrobbler username.
.TP
.B password = MD5SUM
Your Last.fm password, either cleartext or its MD5 sum.
.TP
.B journal = FILE
The file where mpdscribble should store its journal in case you do not
have a connection to the scrobbler.  This option used to be called
"cache".  It is optional.
.TP
.B ignore = FILE
Include an ignore file for this scrobbler to exclude tracks from scrobbling.

.SH IGNORE FILE FORMAT
Tracks can be ignored by listing them in an \fBignore file\fP.
Each line in the file specifies a pattern to match tracks you wish to exclude from scrobbling.
The format is simple and flexible, allowing you to match by artist, album, title, track number or a combination of these fields.
.SS File Format
A tag match is specified as tagname="value", where tagname is replaced with one of the supported tags (artist, album, title, track).
Values \fBmust\fP be quoted and spaces are not allowed surrounding the equal sign.

Each line consists of one or more tag matches separated by spaces:
.nf
.in +4
tag1="value1" tag2="value2" ...
.in
.fi

Tags can appear in any order and blank lines are ignored.

A backslash (\e) is interpreted as escape character and may be used to escape literal double quotes within a value.
To write a literal backslash, use a double backslash (\e\e).

Each line is limited to 4096 characters including the newline character.
Superflous characters are silently ignored.

.SS Examples
If a tag is omitted, any value for that field is matched:
.TP
.B title="Bohemian Rhapsody"
Matches any track titled \fIBohemian Rhapsody\fP.
.TP
.B artist="Queen"
Matches any track by \fIQueen\fP, regardless of album or title.
.TP
.B artist="Queen" album="A Night at the Opera"
Matches any track by \fIQueen\fP from \fIA Night at the Opera\fP, regardless of title.
.TP
.B artist="Queen" album="A Night at the Opera" title="Bohemian Rhapsody"
Matches a specific track by \fIQueen\fP, from \fIA Night at the Opera\fP, titled \fIBohemian Rhapsody\fP.
.TP
.B artist="Queen" album="A Night at the Opera" track="01"
Matches the first track on the album \fIA Night at the Opera\fP by \fIQueen\fP.
Note that track tags are interpreted as text and not numbers, meaning "01" is not the same as "1".
.TP
.B artist="Clark \e"Plazmataz\e" Powell"
Matches tracks by \fIClark "Plazmataz" Powell\fP.


.SH FILES
.I /etc/mpdscribble.conf
.RS
The system wide configuration file. 
.RE

.I ~/.config/mpdscribble/mpdscribble.conf
.RS
Per user configuration file. 
.RE

.I /var/cache/mpdscribble/mpdscribble.cache
.RS
The system wide Last.fm cache file.
.RE

.I ~/.cache/mpdscribble/mpdscribble.cache
.RS
Per user Last.fm cache file.
.RE

.I /var/log/mpdscribble/mpdscribble.log
.RS
The system wide log file. 
.RE

.RE
.SH BUGS
File permissions on cache/log file may be insecure by default.

Please report new bugs to the MPD bug tracker:
http://www.musicpd.org/mantis

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mpd (1),
.BR mpc (1)

